The other big part is the data plane,
the physical medium
on which voice actually gets
carried from point A to point B.
The telephone adoption was
going like a hockey stick.
There were 50,000 in 1890,
and by 1910, there were 5 million lines.
And AT&T realized very early
on that long distance was
going to be a crucial
aspect of their business.
In this 1891 map, you can see the red
lines showing their network and
they wanted to cover the entire
continent with their network.
But there was a problem, path loss,
that is, as you travel longer and
longer distances the signal
strength on the wires
were getting attenuated and
they could hardly reach
up to Chicago in 1930.
And they really wanted to reach
up to San Francisco by 1915,
because the managers had
already announced that at
the 1915 Pan Pacific Expo, they were going
to demonstrate cross continental call.
So, they had to solve this problem.
So I take a small detour here and
show you a picture of Lee de Forest,
who was invented, he was credited
with the invention of Audion or
the vacuum tube that
functioned as an amplifier.
It's called a triode, the small one watt
receiving tube is in his left hand and
the large one, the transmitter,
is on his right hand.
So he invented this in 1906, and
he wanted to make money off his invention.
And he met a promoter,
Abraham White, from Texas.
And he was his main VC, or
venture capitalist supporter,
for the next five years.
And this had lots of applications in
many many electronic circuits for
amplification, oscillators, modulators.
But, de Forest had lots of bad
luck in monetizing his inventions.
He had lots of legal battles about
which we will come to in a short while.
But, back to AT&T, Western Electric,
which is the subsidiary of AT&T for
manufacturing phones and
switches, realized the potential of the
vacuum tube that de Forest had invented.
But it had some problems.
They had to redefine the circuit
to make sure that it would work at
the telephone line voltages level.
And they also figured out that you
had to remove the gas that de Forest
had in the vacuum tube completely.
And essentially,
the circuit operation became
flow of electrons inside of the device,
instead of gas ions.
And what AT&T did was they had a third
party negotiator go up to de Forest,
and negotiated the rights for
using this invention for
all wireless applications for $50,000.
And since de Forest had
lots of legal problems,
he really needed the money and
he closed the deal.
And AT&T finished the transcontinental
line between New York and San Francisco
eight months ahead of schedule.
But they held the announcement
til the Expo started and
gave a very nice demo with huge fanfare.
This shows the network that AT&T had
with the long distance lines and
with the thick lines and
the local lines covering
pretty much the entire
network by year 1927.
So this was a huge accomplishment and
they had continuous growth of
subscribers throughout the country.
And around the same time,
they also laid lines under the ocean and
also radio towers,
to connect US and Europe,
and you could have
transcontinental voice calls.
This was really the dream of
Theodore Vail, the CEO of AT&T,
and the network was growing and
getting more powerful day by day.
And before we leave,
I would like you to see this video.
Jimmy?
[MUSIC]
>> Hello?
>> Yes, a collect call to Mrs.
Floyd from Mr. Floyd.
Will you accept the charges
from the United States?
[MUSIC]
[SOUND] Oh, he hung up.
That's your residence.
I wonder why he hung up.
Is there supposed to be someone else
there besides your wife there to answer?
[SOUND]
>> Hello?
>> This is United States calling.
Are we reaching.
[SOUND] See, he keeps hanging up.
And it's a man answering.